---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "technitium_zone Resource - technitium"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  Manages a DNS zone in Technitium DNS Server.
---

# technitium_zone (Resource)

Manages a DNS zone in Technitium DNS Server.



<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `name` (String) The domain name for the DNS zone.
- `type` (String) The type of zone to create. Valid values are `Primary`, `Secondary`, `Stub`, `Forwarder`, `SecondaryForwarder`, `Catalog`, `SecondaryCatalog`.

### Optional

- `catalog` (String) The name of the catalog zone to become its member zone. Valid only for `Primary`, `Stub`, and `Forwarder` zones.
- `dnssec_validation` (Boolean) Set to `true` to enable DNSSEC validation. Valid for Conditional Forwarder zones.
- `forwarder` (String) The address of the DNS server to be used as a forwarder. Required for Conditional Forwarder zones.
- `initialize_forwarder` (Boolean) Set to `true` to initialize the Conditional Forwarder zone with an FWD record. Valid for Conditional Forwarder zones.
- `primary_name_server_addresses` (String) List of comma separated IP addresses or domain names of the primary name server. Required for `Secondary`, `SecondaryForwarder`, and `SecondaryCatalog` zones.
- `protocol` (String) The DNS transport protocol to be used by the Conditional Forwarder zone. Valid values are `Udp`, `Tcp`, `Tls`, `Https`, `Quic`.
- `proxy_address` (String) The proxy server address.
- `proxy_password` (String, Sensitive) The proxy server password.
- `proxy_port` (Number) The proxy server port.
- `proxy_type` (String) The type of proxy to be used for conditional forwarding. Valid values are `NoProxy`, `DefaultProxy`, `Http`, `Socks5`.
- `proxy_username` (String) The proxy server username.
- `tsig_key_name` (String) The TSIG key name to be used by `Secondary`, `SecondaryForwarder`, and `SecondaryCatalog` zones.
- `use_soa_serial_date_scheme` (Boolean) Set to `true` to enable using date scheme for SOA serial. Valid only with `Primary`, `Forwarder`, and `Catalog` zones.
- `validate_zone` (Boolean) Set to `true` to enable ZONEMD validation. Valid only for `Secondary` zones.
- `zone_transfer_protocol` (String) The zone transfer protocol to be used by `Secondary`, `SecondaryForwarder`, and `SecondaryCatalog` zones. Valid values are `Tcp`, `Tls`, `Quic`.
